
Introduction 


Associations between objects are simple to conceive and to draw, but implementing them
is a potential quagmire

we'll focus on making distinctions among the three patterns of model elements that 
express the model: ENTITIES , VALUE OBJECTS , and SERVICES.

Value objects:

Does an object represent something with continuity and identity—something that is tracked
through different states or even across different implementations? Or is it an attribute that
describes the state of something else? This is the basic distinction between an ENTITY and a VALUE
OBJECT

Services: 

there are those aspects of the domain that are more clearly expressed as actions or
operations, rather than as objects. Although it is a slight departure from object-oriented modeling
tradition, it is often best to express these as SERVICES , rather than forcing responsibility for an
operation onto some ENTITY or VALUE OBJECT . A SERVICE is something that is done for a client on
request. In the technical layers of the software, there are many SERVICES . They emerge in the
domain also, when some activity is modeled that corresponds to something the software must do,
but does not correspond with state.

In a MODEL-DRIVEN DESIGN , MODULES are part of the model, and they should reflect concepts in the domain.


Associations


The interaction between modeling and implementation is particularly tricky with the associations
between objects. For every traversable association in the model, there is a mechanism in the software with the
same properties.

A model that shows an association between a customer and a sales representative corresponds to
two things. On one hand, it abstracts a relationship developers deemed relevant between two real
people. On the other hand, it corresponds to an object pointer between two Java objects, or an
encapsulation of a database lookup, or some comparable implementation.

There are at least three ways of making associations more tractable.

    1. Imposing a traversal direction

The United States has had many presidents, as have many other countries. This is a bidirectional,
one-to-many relationship. Yet we seldom would start out with the name "George Washington" and
ask, "Of which country was he president?" Pragmatically, we can reduce the relationship to a
unidirectional association, traversable from country to president. This refinement actually reflects
insight into the domain, as well as making a more practical design. It captures the understanding
that one direction of the association is much more meaningful and important than the other. It
keeps the "Person" class independent of the far less fundamental concept of "President."

    Example at Figure  5.1


    2. Adding a qualifier, effectively reducing multiplicity

Very often, deeper understanding leads to a "qualified" relationship. Looking deeper into
presidents, we realize that (except in a civil war, perhaps) a country has only one president at a
time. This qualifier reduces the multiplicity to one-to-one, and explicitly embeds an important rule
into the model. Who was president of the United States in 1790? George Washington.

When the bidirectionality of a relationship is a semantic
characteristic of the domain, when it's needed for application functionality, the retention of both
traversal directions conveys that.

But whatever the particular rules, as constraints on associations are discovered they should be
included in the model and implementation.

    Example at Figure  5.2

At page 89. 


    3. Eliminating nonessential associations

The ultimate simplification is to eliminate an association altogether, if it is not essential
to the job at hand or the fundamental meaning of the model objects.

Carefully distilling and constraining the model's associations will take you a long way toward a
MODEL-DRIVEN DESIGN.


